---
author:
slug: heroin
title: Heroin
metatitle: Is Heroin Dangerous?
date_published: 2019-10-29
modified: 2019-10-29
category: activities
summary: Is heroin dangerous? We took the relevant factors into account.
danger_level: 9.1
factors: Highly addictive, Potentially lethal, Difficult to evaluate purity 
image: heroin.jpg
---

**Heroin** is a drug that [people](/animals/people) do, and generally thereafter keep doing. It presents many, many threats to the people who do it. First, it is highly addictive—people who start doing it almost all have trouble keeping themselves from doing it more after that. Second, the situations in which people do it encourage unsafe injection practices, which leads to the spread of infections, both curable and incurable. Third, addiction is expensive and discourages more typical human behaviors (like working), which factors in concert often lead to heroin users' predisposition to seek unsafe means of acquire [money](/ideas/money) to pay for more heroin. Finally, and most importantly, it can lead without warning to overdose, which is sometimes lethal (though sometimes deaths from overdose are preventable—[email us](mailto:isxdangerous@gmail.com) and we'll try to find you a Narcan training workshop in your area).

Heroin can be snorted or injected. Some similar drugs can be smoked or taken as pills. We are not able to write this article without suggesting that you do none of these things.

On a social scale, heroin use tends to reinforce its own concentration in a given area—such as, recently, [small-town America](/places/small-town-america). The aggregate effect of regular local usage is profound, with rural communities regularly suffering multiple deaths in a short period of time among people of the same approximate age.

Obviously, you should not do (or distribute) heroin—it is **very dangerous**.
